+++
abstract = "Locomotion of legged robots on arbitrary terrain using multiple contacts is yet an open problem. To tackle it, a common approach is to rely on reduced template models (e.g. the linear inverted pendulum). However, most of existing template models are based on some restrictive hypotheses that limit their range of applications. Moreover, reduced models are generally not able to cope with the constraints of the robot complete model, like the kinematic limits. In this paper, we propose a complete solution relying on a generic template model, based on the centroidal dynamics, able to quickly compute multi-contact locomotion trajectories for any legged robot on arbitrary terrains. The template model relies on exact dynamics and is thus not limited by arbitrary assumption. We also propose a generic procedure to handle feasibility constraints due to the robot whole body as occupation measures, and a systematic way to approximate them using off-line learning in simulation. An efficient solver is finally obtained by introducing an original second-order approximation of the centroidal wrench cone. The effectiveness and the versatility of the approach is demonstrated in several multi-contact scenarios with two humanoid robots both in reality and in simulation. "
abstract_short = "Locomotion of legged robots on arbitrary terrain using multiple contacts is yet an open problem. To tackle it, a common approach is to rely on reduced template models (e.g. the linear inverted pendulum). However, most of existing template models are based on some restrictive hypotheses that limit their range of applications." 
authors = ["Justin Carpentier and Nicolas Mansard"]
date = "2017-05-20T10:30:16+02:00"
image = "small_icra2016.png"
image_preview = "small_icra2016.png"
math = false
publication_types = ["4"]
publication = "IEEE Transactions on Robotics"
publication_short = "IEEE Transactions on Robotics"
selected = false
submission = true
title = "Multi-contact Locomotion of Legged Robots"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_openaccess = "https://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/hal-01520248"
url_doi = ""
url_pdf = "https://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/hal-01520248/document"
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7hiLf6DpMAA"

+++

### Video ###

<center><iframe width="720" height="405" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/7hiLf6DpMAA" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe></center>
</br>


